Review Date: 08/03/2022

TL;DR: This is an exceptionally good high level overview into the concepts, tactics, techniques, and procedures of what's involved in Cyberwarfare.  The first half of the book is predominatley narrative and analysis driven which makes for a compelling introduction, the second half focuses more on the technical side of things but still manages to keep things interesting.  If I have any criticisms of the book, IMHO chapter 7 (which I think is the shortest chapter in the book outside the apendicies) is also the weakest chapter in the book not because it doesn't present a wealth of information (it does), but because it lacks the narrative structure found through the rest of the book.  Overall though it's hard to go wrong with this book, the template/questions along with the footnotes are worth the price of admission alone.  DiMaggio clearly shows his depth and breadth of experience with what is a standout entry of information security books that are all to often dry and left wanting.  


Section 1:

As noted in the summary, Section 1 of "Art of Cyberwarfare" provides a nice overview of a variety of attacks, techniques, and procedures utilized by a variety of different actors to include a lot of the greatest hits such as Shamoon, WannaCry, StuxNet and a variety of others that are often not mentioned.  Some interesting points here are how DiMaggio will often go through the history of a nation state attacker and where they started out in terms of capabilites and where they are today.  Of particluar interest to me was Iran and the US with Iran's starting point being predominately a web forum (there were efforts before this but this is what stood out to me) and graduating fairly rapidly from web defacements to Gmail attacks to full on nation state attacks with Shamoon.  The US on the other hand proved interesting because of the vast resources and wide variety of attack vectors from encryption with Crypto AG to Equation Group methods and beyond. 

This section on nation state attacks both based on espionioge/cyberwarfare and based around financial gain is a great primer and a (dark) fun read, though somewhat light on the history of North Korea, not unexpectedly, it does provide the wonderful narrative hook it was intended to.

One of the frameworks that this book executes on beautifully is a steady introduction of technical concepts, frameworks, and infosec jargon.  Particularly I noted in chapter 2 with the "three phase Denial of Service Attack Model" which provides names and suscint details that are later expanded in more depth and detail.  In subsequent chapters we get more depth in regards to analysis (with some wonderful suggestions/footnotes that provide even more detail should the reader be interested) along with some useful infographics to help drive home the point, though they can be a bit tedious and convoluted for the reader to follow.  

Some fun and interesting points I found in this section:

-  EvilCorp entirely restructuring in the aftermath of law enforcement pressure and a dying business model in banking malware

-  DarkSide/REvil Corp getting shutdown hard after the colonial pipeline attack to include losing access to attack infrastructure as well as funds

